# etch-a-sketch

07-02-25 22:40 - starting the etch-a-sketch project for odin. I know this is definitely going to be a tough one. Not even really sure where to start.

07-03-25 18:08 - ended the night with almost having my canvas how I'd like. I've got the mouseover effect working but now struggling to have it maintain a 16x16 shape. Hopefully I can solve that today!

07-03-25 22:32 - I've got most of my project complete at this put except two things: solving how to clear the previous etch-a-sketch canvas & the rainbow effect; I don't think I care much for the opacity one but maybe I should do it for practice -- "the exisiting grid should be removed" (odin). I think I've got the idea in my head; now I've just got to solve it. I ran through some removeChild/loops/function errors but the previous grid still remained. I work tomorrow, so hopefully I can spend some time thinking about it during down time. The rainbow effect I believe I mostly have worked out in my head to create a button that can just trigger that effect. The big issue is clearing that previous grid.

07-04-25 15:08 - Incredible day today. I got off work early and was able to work on this assignment for quite a while. I figured out how to delete the previous grid when a user selects the new grid size. I was able to implement rainbow mode and figure out the logic for the clear button for each. I'm pretty happy with where I'm at but to learn a bit more about the opacity CSS stuff I think later this evening I will try to implement an opacity mode to trial that 'extra-credit' out. I also want to add into the logic if the user clicks cancel or fails to enter a value in the prompt; rather than doing nothing or saying the value is too small - I'd like to customize it. Other than that, I'm hoping to wrap up the project by adding a little style to the page to make it my own and then submit it!

07-04-25 22:32 - Messed around with the opacity function with no luck tonight. I think I'm misunderstanding the property a bit and also failing to loop through it like I need to. Going to leave it as is for tonight and hopefully figure it out tomorrow - then the project is complete! I'll also do a little bit of quick styling to make the page look better and add the null/empty text logic to the buttons. Stoked on this project and how much I've learned!

07-06-25 01:25 - Added some styling to the page and added null/empty string logic for the prompt. Asked for some guidance on opacity in the discord; hopefully I can get on the right track tomorrow!

07-07-25 03:30 - So I've had this complete minus the other extra credit - opacity. I FINALLY figured it out tonight; a guy from the discord server helped me figure out the increment issue (default is 1, so you have to specify another value there using +=). Then I struggled for a few hours from one (now easy to see) issue. I left the initial opacity variable within the mouseover event. So, it was never going to change because it always went back. I moved it out and was good to go. Then I inverted everything so my background is black and easier on the eyes. I did use a tool to make a linear gradient (haven't learned those yet) on my text and rainbow button. I just wanted it to look sweet. I feel like I wasted time on this project just stumbling around with opactiy - but in the end I did learn quite a few things I probably would've got stuck on in the future. So all in all, I'm glad I stuck around for the extra credit! One more project coming up and then it's on to the full JS course. I'm stoked!